{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1\froman Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\fs28\b JavaCodeAnalyzer-Pro Documentation\b0\par
\fs20\par
\b Overview\b0\par
JavaCodeAnalyzer-Pro is a lightweight, dependency-free static analysis tool written in pure Java that inspects source trees to compute code quality metrics, detect duplicate blocks and likely secrets, and produce human-friendly reports including an interactive HTML dashboard. The tool is implemented using only Java SE APIs (no external libraries), making it portable and easy to run in constrained environments.\par
\par
\b Key Features\b0\par
- Complexity metrics: Cyclomatic Complexity and Cognitive Complexity.\par
- Halstead metrics: Vocabulary, Length, Volume, Difficulty, Effort.\par
- Maintainability Index (MI) for quick health scoring.\par
- Duplicate code detection and secrets scanning (regex + entropy heuristics).\par
- Git churn analysis (commits, lines added/deleted, authors) when run inside a Git repository.\par
- Parallel scanning support for large codebases and configurable file filters.\par
- Multiple export formats: human-readable text, CSV, JSON, and an interactive HTML dashboard (`output/dashboard.html`).\par
\par
\b Architecture & Implementation\b0\par
The project follows a layered design: an analysis core in `src/analyzer` orchestrates scanning, utilities in `src/utils` perform metric calculations (Halstead, Cognitive Complexity, Secrets detection), and data models in `src/model` store results (including `AdvancedMetrics` and `ChurnMetrics`). Concurrency is handled via `ExecutorService`. Reports are generated to `output/` and the HTML dashboard is built with Chart.js (CDN).\par
\par
\b Usage (Quick Start)\b0\par
1. Compile: run `compile.bat` to build sources into `bin/`.\par
2. Analyze: run (example) `java -cp bin analyzer.CodeAnalyzerMain data\\test --format=html`.\par
3. Open dashboard: `Start-Process "output\\dashboard.html"`.\par
4. Useful flags: `--format=text|json|csv|html`, `--parallel`, `--ext=.java,.py,.js`, `--exclude`, `--exclude-glob`.\par
\par
\b Advanced Metrics (Interpretation)\b0\par
- Halstead Volume: higher values indicate greater information content and typically more effort to understand.\par
- Maintainability Index: 0-100 (higher is better). Values below 65 may need attention.\par
- Cognitive Complexity: lower is better; penalizes deeply nested structures.\par
- Git Churn: files with high churn + low MI are maintenance hotspots.\par
\par
\b Files & Outputs\b0\par
- `output/code_analysis_report.txt` — text report.\par
- `output/code_analysis_report.csv` — CSV export.\par
- `output/code_analysis_report.json` — JSON export.\par
- `output/dashboard.html` — interactive HTML dashboard.\par
\par
\b Extensibility & Roadmap\b0\par
The language heuristics are modular; adding support for another language requires implementing tokenization and control-flow heuristics. Planned work includes improved duplication detection, per-method breakdowns, SARIF export, and CI quality gates.\par
\par
\b Contact\b0\par
For issues or feature requests, open an issue on the GitHub repository: https://github.com/Puneet04-tech/JavaCodeAnalyzer-Pro\par

}
